
Carpooling and ridesharing are innovative share economy ideas, with a great potential to change the way how we transport and also the impact in our customs in the society.  In this report we are analyzing different important aspects. At the beginning we define the concept of carpooling and ridesharing, and then we focus in to identify the origins and reasons that encouraged people, government and market to move forward in different periods before. 
During the 70`s was the users largest peak, especially in North America, due to different external factors, having more than 22% of people that go job using ride matching platforms, but decreasing to around the 10% during the present decade. Nowadays by the hand of the technology and innovative business ideas are doing a strong and fast resurging. 

Currently the largest companies in the ridesharing and carpooling industry are Uber, Lyft, Blablacar, Kuaidi.  Many other new companies also start their businesses and can be successful due to access to open-source hardware and software and also with the use of new technologies like blockchain. 
Every month thousands of people add to this share networks, with the purpose of share expenses, earn money, enjoy a more personalized transport service, have real interaction with people and others.  The competition between companies is ferocious. Most of them have been in the last 3 years collecting huge amount of funds from venture companies, with the purpose to implement their marketing strategies and spread the network of users locally and globally in some cases. 
The market is concentrated in North America, Europe and Asia. Fueled by increasing financial investments especially in USA and China, and environmental policies in progress, make the expectation that the market will grow faster. 

At the same time the non-controlled increase number of vehicles that are sold every year, the traffic jam in big cities becoming every year worst, and the quality of the air due to the Carbone dioxide emanated by the vehicles, create the conditions to link the market, people and government work together in the same direction. Many people see the ridesharing and carpooling like the solution to environment problems. Others think that the most important is the idea of share economy business that is being implemented, because can increase the productivity and efficiency of the cars from the economic point of view. 

At the same time users are becoming more demanding of new innovation of technologies, demanding a wide network of users that let them to have real time matching efficiently with personalize features, are doing that a race in technology one of the most important goals for such companies. Technologies to boost the market like dynamic and flexible systems, and challenges related to the limitation of geographic area and the security are some research areas, due to nowadays represent an obstacle for the development of the carpooling and ridesharing.
And for some companies also thinking out of the box and trying to make great leaps, are investing in technological centers to develop technologies to make possible self-driving cars in the not too distant future combined with ride matching services.




Several countries already have authorized and adopted the concept. Others decided to supervise the practice of carpooling and ridesharing without any rules to follow.  And some others countries like China that in the past has been strong resistance, especially because largely affects the common taxi drivers, but at the same time sees the necessity to regulate a market that cannot be overlooked and also could be an alternative to ease traffic congestion, pollution and conserve energy.

In this report we will further investigate each factor in more detail and try to give the reader the principal issue of each topic related to carpooling and ridesharing market.
