Introduction 
Concept of Carpooling 
Carpooling is an option whether or not own or drive a car. If someone know that travel the same route as a neighbor or co-worker, consider arranging to carpool or ride-share. Carpooling is seen as a more environmentally friendly and sustainable way to travel as sharing journeys reduces carbon emissions, traffic congestion on the roads, and the need for parking spaces. Authorities often encourage carpooling, especially during high pollution periods.
Carpool commuting is more popular for people who work in places with more jobs nearby, and who live in places with higher residential densities. Is significantly correlated with transport operating costs, including gas prices and commute length, and with measures of social capital, such as time spent with others, time spent eating and drinking, and being unmarried. Is significantly less likely among people who spend more time at work, older workers, and homeowners.
Something similar, is ridesharing, that is a service that arranges one-time shared rides on very short notice. This type of carpooling generally makes use of three recent technological advances: 
	GPS navigation devices to determine a driver's route and arrange the shared ride
	Smartphones for a traveler to request a ride from wherever they happen to be
	Social networks to establish trust and accountability between drivers and passengers
These elements are coordinated through a network service, which can instantaneously handle the driver payments and match rides using an optimization algorithm. Like carpooling, ridesharing is promoted as a way to better utilize the empty seats in most passenger cars, thus lowering fuel usage and transport costs. It can serve areas not covered by a public transit system and act as a transit feeder service. Ridesharing is also capable of serving one-time trips, not only recurrent commute trips or scheduled trips.   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-time_ridesharing
 
 
Carpooling over the years
 
  
Fig 1. Five phases of north america ridesharing services.
  
Please. This emage is more related to the statistics over the years, so bbeter fit here, not in market analysis.
World War II car-sharing clubs (1942-1945) 		
Ridesharing began during World War II through “car clubs” or “car-sharingclubs”. In 1942 US government regulation required that ridesharing arrangements to workplaces be made when no other alternative transportation means were available. The objective was share a ride in one car to conserve rubber and fuel for the war effort. It also created a ridesharing programme called the Car sharing Club Exchange and Self-Dispatching System. Factories and companies were responsible for forming these car-sharing clubs. Even churches, homemakers, and parent–teacher associations were responsible for forming carpools to and from various functions. Ridesharing in North America: Past, Present, and Future  Nelson D. Chan a & Susan A. Shaheen
 
Major responses to the energy crises (1970-1980)
Ridesharing reappeared in the late 1960s and grew significantly in the 1970s in response to the energy crisis and the Arab oil embargo of 1973 to 1974. During phase two, strategies to facilitate ridesharing included: employer-sponsored commuter ridematching programmes, vanpooling, HOV lanes, casual carpooling, and park-and-ride facilities.
These programmes were created relatively simply—each company collected employee data, hand-matched those who were neighbours (this eventually became computerized), and distributed personalized matches. This straightforward method proved highly successful; when coupled with priority parking privileges, several companies were able to double vehicle occupancies and reduce parking lot strain.  Beginning in 1973, the Arab oil embargo shifted ridesharing’s focus from constrained parking supply concerns to energy conservation. Employer-sponsored commuter ridematching programmes caught the attention of US federal agencies as an aggressive tool to achieve energy conservation goals. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) began cataloguing successful employer ridematching programmes to publish guidebooks on carpooling and vanpooling. FHWA conducted a nationwide survey of ridematching programmes, many of which began during the energy crisis. The study found an increase of 29 to 400 commuters in carpools and a reduction of 23% of vehicle-miles travelled (VMT) among 197 000 employees. Ridesharing in North America: Past, Present, and Future  Nelson D. Chan a & Susan A. Shaheen
Early organized ridesharing schemes (1980 - 1997)
As energy conservation efforts waned in the 1980s and 1990s, transportation demand management shifted focus to improving congestion and air quality issues. Advances in computerized ridematching during this period also marked a move towards more dynamic ridesharing applications in the form of telephoneand Internet-based ridematching programmes. However, as gasoline prices returned to lower levels during this time, ridesharing lost much of its competitiveness. Many of the early schemes, with developing and imperfect technology, never gained much use but formed the basis for many of today’s ridesharing services. Ridesharing in North America: Past, Present, and Future  Nelson D. Chan a & Susan A. Shaheen
Reliable ridesharing systems (1999 - 2004) 
With most dynamic ridematching applications of the 1980s and 90s failing to overcome the “critical mass” barrier (i.e. providing enough users to consistently create a successful instant ridesharing match), most North American ridesharing systems between 1999 and 2004 focused on systems to encourage ridesharing among commuters who had the most reliable trip schedules. This included online ridematching and traveller information services.
With the proliferation of the Internet, many ridesharing systems took online forms, known as online ridematching. Fullfledged, online ridematching services began around 1999. Before then, websites were either simple pages listing agency contact information, online forms for users to e-mail the agency to receive a matchlist, or online notice boards for users to manually post or search carpool listings. Since 1999, private software companies began developing ridematching “platforms”, providing their suite of services to clients for a monthly fee. Carpools formed through online ridematching tended to be more static and inflexible and required prearrangement. While it was easier to find ridematches in a larger online database, these carpools still suffered from the same drawbacks as traditional carpools; namely, regular commuters lost the flexibility that private auto travel offered. 
As housing and employment centres became more dispersed, giving even less incentive to rideshare, online ridematching had difficulty gaining more users than its related employer-sponsored commuter ridematching programmes of the late 1960s. Ridesharing in North America: Past, Present, and Future  Nelson D. Chan a & Susan A. Shaheen
Technology-enabled ride matching (2004 - to present)
Focus on reducing climate change, also financial incentives for “green trips” through sponsors, the growing dependence on foreign oil and traffic congestion issue, are one of the reason of the emergence of this new ride matching period.  Working side by side with the Internet, smartphones, and social networking platforms. Ridesharing in North America: Past, Present, and Future  Nelson D. Chan a & Susan A. Shaheen

 
 
Part 1: Market Analysis 
    2014
In the market we have  some models of carpooling platforms. Nowadays is most notable for the widespread integration of the Internet, mobile phones, and social networking (i.e. an online community where individuals connect and interact) into ride sharing services. At present, the majority of North American, Europe and Asia ride matching services use online websites or smart phone applications as their chief technology medium. In some developed countries we have that around 10% of the people use carpooling to go work. 
From ridematching platform partnerships should be update the information with this one. The last time I cut some part of the other version.
Ride matching platform partnerships
From 2004 to the present, a new generation of ride matching platforms has been developed for regions and employers to use. Moreover, there has been significant growth and overall success with this strategy. Partnerships between ride matching software companies and its large-scale clients take advantage of existing common destinations and large numbers of potential members. These firms sell their ride matching software “platforms” to public agencies and employers, which are sometimes used as standalone websites for each group. While this partnership strategy has gained more users than previous ridesharing phases, it is most suited for commuters with regular schedules. 
 
“Green trip”-sponsored incentives
Many public agencies and companies promote ridesharing by providing its members with incentives. One example is NuRide, who rewards points when members carpool, vanpool, take public transit, bike, walk, or telecommute for both work and personal trips. These points can be used for restaurant coupons, shopping discounts, and attraction tickets. NuRide partners with public agencies, employers, and businesses to sponsor the incentives. 
 
Social networking platforms
The rise of social networking platforms, such as Facebook, has enabled ridesharing companies to use this interface to match potential rides between friends or acquaintances more easily. These companies hope that social networking will build trust among participants, addressing safety considerations. One example is Zimride, which has partnered with 86 US and Canadian colleges, universities, and companies that each has their own “network” of members (Zimride, 2011). In addition to each network’s website, Zimride also uses the Facebook platform to attract public users.  It allows members to create their own groups based on common area, company, school, and shared interests. However, social networking may limit itself by relying on more isolated groups and excluding less tech-savvy users. 
Real-time ridesharing services
Real-time ridesharing uses Internet-enabled “smartphones” and automated ridematching software to organize rides in real time. This enables participants to be organized either minutes before the trip takes place or while the trip is occurring, with passengers picked up and dropped off along the way. These programmes attempt to address the inconvenience of traditional carpooling and vanpooling. 
 
All this models for ride matching added to the differents periods of ridesharing apps, made that until 2011,  just in North America were 638 ridematching services. (1) University of California Berkeley, Transportation Sustainability Research Center, Disruptive Innovations in ridesharing.  Therefore, it resulted in disparate, non-standardized databases that leave many programmes with a lack of critical mass and safety. 
 



 
In this grapg in the second column please change the word  passenger  by carpooling
  
 




The latest movements and strategies on market across the world
 
During the last years what the market has experimented the rise of some start-ups around the world related to ridesharing and carpooling  smartphone applications and web services, using the technology like google maps to have real time ridesharing services and the implementation of new economy business have resulted in some interesting movements and strategys in the global market . We can see it in the Table 1, the recolecting founding those company have had, give the impression that is a lot of interest from investment companies in this market.  Also some of those have taken the strategy to spread  their services around the world,  buying other local companies or even their competitors.  

We are in front of a new and fast growing market, which one have aroused the interest of those were partner before, to nowaday become ferocious competitors. Nowadays have become a race, everyone is working with each other and working against each le 1

 
Table 1. Summarize of data from reference (1)  



Reference for the table:
www.crunchbase.com Uber, Blablacar, Ola, Lyft, sidecar, Kuaidi Dache, Didi Dache
http://www.marbridgeconsulting.com	Mobile Ridesharing App Dida Pinche Wins USD 100 Mln Series C 
https://www.techinasia.com/baidu-adds-ridesharing-app-portfolio-series-investment-tiantian-yongche/
http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/03/30/china-uber-idUSL3N0WS42720150330
http://gbtimes.com/china/beijing-lifts-ban-carpooling

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UBER
 
Uber, is an USA company, headquartered in San Francisco, California. As of  May 28, 2015, the service was available in 58 countries and 300 cities worldwide.(Where is Uber Currently Available?. Uber.com). 
Since Uber's launch, several other companies have emulated its business model.  Uber have the rideharing and also pooling app. The ridesharing app consistis in a platform which connects passengers to drivers for hire car services, allowing consumers to request for a trip, an specific driver, car, etc. In the position of the driver, let to a normal person to serve like a taxi, and be himself his own boss. The mobile app sends an electronic hail for a car based on the person location. The service guarantee a ride and the transactions are automatically billed to the passenger on the credit car by Uber. 
The end users are upper class, business class, urban middle class and the suppliers are individual middle class drivers and companies that provide transportation services, like limousine companies. Those companies and drivers are required by contract to have all the requisite licenses, registrations and insurances. The value proposition for end users is secure, trustworthy and guaranteed ride with shorter waiting, and for the drivers, busier and efficient days.
Uber, that is a USA company is leading the funding received, having in total 5.9 billions USD collected, being one of the youngest companies in the market, just founded in 2011.  (https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/uber). Nowadays Uber  value is more than $50 billion. (the Wall Street Journal reports), what would make it the highest-valued private startup of all time.
 
One of their biggest strategy for success is because they push the innovative idea, have recolected big amounts of founds what let them to have an agaressive marketing campaign, which include free ride for customers, or bonus for drivers who achieve a certain amounts of rides.  For example for new users they give $30 USD free for the first ride.  And for drivers, to attack their competitors, they offer $500 USD for when you achieve your 20th trip and if you were on another ridesharing platform before.  All this strategies make of Uber very popular between consumers and drivers. http://blog.uber.com/500dollars.
 
Uber also faces an ever-growing cast of adversaries that includes dubious regulators, litigious drivers, hostile members of the press, and some well-funded rivals. But the most significant threat to the app-based transportation company may be much closer to home, from one of its biggest investors, Google. Google Ventures, the search giant's venture capital arm, invested $258 million in Uber in August 2013, and it was Google Ventures' largest investment deal ever, and the company put more money into Uber's next funding round less than a year later.Now there are signs that the companies are more likely to be ferocious competitors than allies. Google is preparing to offer its own ride-hailing service, most likely in conjunction with its long-in-development driverless car project.  (http://www.bloomberg.com,  Exclusive: Google Is Developing Its Own Uber Competitor)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLABLACAR

  
BlaBlaCar is the world's largest long-distance ridesharing community.Conceived in December 2003 by Frédéric Mazzella, and founded in 2006, BlaBlaCar connects drivers and passengers willing to travel together between cities and share the cost of the journey. BlaBlaCar has more than 20 million members across 19 countries across Europe, Russia, Turkey, Mexico and India.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BlaBlaCar)
 
The site and free mobile apps provide a range of features to create a secure, trust-based community and easy connections between drivers and passengers.
BlaBlaCar is based in Paris with offices in London, Madrid, Milan, Hamburg, Budapest, Warsaw, Moscow, Istanbul, Munich, Mexico City and New Delhi. Just in July 2014, in their third founding round, received 100 millions USD from different investors, which has allowed to make some acquisitions of locals companies to enter into new markets or even buying their competitors, like was just recently in april 2015, with carpooling.com, their biggest competitor, a ride sharing network in Europe, funded in Germany. Aventoners.com  from Mexico, Postoinauto.it from Italy and Podorozhniki.com, Smart ridesharing   networks with presence in Russia and Ukraine are among recent purchases of Blabacar. (https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/blablacar)

LYFT
 
Lyft is a privately held, San Francisco–based American transportation network company. The company's mobile-phone application facilitates peer-to-peer ridesharing by connecting passengers who need a ride to drivers who have a car. Lyft's tagline is "your friend with a car". Lyft operates in about 65 U.S. cities, including San Francisco, Los Angeles, and New York City, with plans to expand domestically and internationally. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lyft).
The case of Lyft is very particular, due its founder  John Zimmer originally founded Zimride, a ridesharing company focused on ridesharing for longer trips, often between cities, and linked drivers and passengers through the Facebook Connect application. Zimride eventually became the largest rideshare program in the United States, but later due to emergence of Uber in the market, he decided to sell Zimride, and lunch Lyft to focuse on other business model to compete with Uber and Sidecar.
SIDECAR
 
Sidecar is a transportation network company that connects people for real-time ridesharing. They oofer the service of ridesharing and also carpooling.  Its headquarters are in San Francisco, California, but serves many cities. People can choose a ride based on vehicle, price and estimated time of arrival using their smartphone.(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sidecar_%28company%29)
It is one of the visionary companies,due to his co-founder SunilPaul,  was issued a patent, now held by Sidecar, for using smartphones to coordinate transportation.  
Sidecar to try to attract more users, has launched one of its promotions, that consist in if you refer to a new user, you can get free Sidecar Credit.  
 
 
OLACABS
 
Founded in December 2010, Ola is India's most popular mobile application for booking your cab.  They are changing the way people travel in the cities, bringing together cab drivers and customers technology to make transportation more efficient and cheap.
 
Olacabs have received founds in the ammount of 676.8 USD millions. www.crunchbase.com/organization/ani-technologies#sthash.nSK9GLNn.dpuf
 
DIDI DACHE AND KUAIDI DACHE
 
Didi Dache, a taxi-hailing smartphone app, shows the real-time locations of taxis so that users can hire cabs via their mobile devices. The application shows the real-time locations of taxis on a map using the GPS technology and enables users to find a taxi though their smartphones. The users’ request will be sent to proximate cab drivers who will decide whether to accept the order or not. Didi-Dache was launched in September, 2012 and has been downloaded more than five million times. (www.crunchbase.com/organization/didi-dache)
Kuaidi Group, as the most technologically integrated and largest car service company in the world, is rapidly transforming the concept of moving people – starting in China. The app was launched in August 2012, combines integrated mapping and third party payment technology to make its service accessible to everybody, and provides over 1 million taxis and a variety of standard and luxury cars for all lifestyles. To ensure the service fits smoothly into urban life, Kuaidi has developed a framework is that is adaptable to other platforms in China, and works in partnership with China’s government and regulators instead of against them. In a country where only 18% of per capita car ownership, Kuaidi is clearly meeting an important need. Kuaidi’s unique business model has attracted 100m registered users in over 300 cities, fulfilling 6 million requests per day. To optimize its services and go beyond customer expectations Kuaidi has secured partnerships with Alipay, Ctrip, AutoNavi, Baidu Maps, Qunar, and Beijing’s ‘96106’ government official platform. (www.crunchbase.com/organization/kuaidi-dache)
In February 2015, Didi Dache and Kuaidi Dache announced they merge to create one of the world’s largest smartphone-based transport service companies, worth around $6 billion. Now they have become Didi Kuaidi.  “http://www.reuters.com   “China taxi apps Didi Dache and Kuaidi Dache announce $6 billion tie-up”
Kuaidi Dache and Didi Dache are believed to account for a whopping 99% percent of China’s taxi app market.  Together they have more than 200 millions users and more than 1 million drivers. http://www.reuters.com     Chinese carpooling app Dida in partnership talks with Uber -investor
 
China’s taxi and ridesharing app market is a battlefield, both politically and commercially. Even that they have largely in charge of the market, the are not sleeping and trying to take care of their closest competitors like Uber and Yidao Yongche, and do not leaving them to gain market.  A new program that allows its app users to use 15 RMB (US$2.42) discounts twice a day if they use Didi Express. Each 15 RMB discount can cover about 10 kilometers, meaning that Didi Express customers can ride up to 20 kilometers per day for free using the service. The heavily-discounted rides are available in 12 major cities, including Beijing, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chengdu, Wuhan, Xi’an, and Nanjing, but not including Shanghai. Offering these kinds of discounts doesn’t come cheap; Didi Kuaidi will reportedly have to cough up RMB 1 billion (161 millions USD) to cover the month. www.techinasia.com  Didi Kuaidi spends $161M to give customers free rides as China’s taxi app price war ramps up
 
 
	 
 
Fig1:  China Ridesharing Apps- Market Share 2014 Q3
http://www.techweb.com.cn/data/2014-11-04/2092762.shtml
DIDA PINCHE
 
Dida Pinche was founded in 2014. Beijing-based Changxing Information Technology, developer of mobile ridesharing app, has completed received 130 USD millions in founding.   This  will increase its market expansion efforts, upgrade its customer experience and expand its user base.  It currently covers 13 cities and has more than 4 millions of users. http://www.chinamoneynetwork.com	China Renaissance Leads $100M Series C Round In Dida Pinche
Also DIDA PINCHE investor told Reuters, the have met Uber Chief Executive Officer , Travis Kalanich, to discuss possible investment or tie-ups.
http://www.chinadaily.com.cn    Chinese carpooling app Dida in partnership talks with Uber - investor
 
Also in China worth mention two new companies related to carpool and ridesharing apps, Tiantian Yongche and 51yongche, those who are new entrants to China’s ridesharing market. The may have funding of some major players, but at present its reach is still quite limited. The service operates in specially in the most important cities. https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/51yongche#sthash.kSxAt8OI.dpuf
 
 
 
		
 		
The future of the ridesharing market
We have seen how some big companies have had unprecedented growth in recent years. The number of users for both ridesharing and carpooling follows the same trend. When carpooling started were external factors such as energy crises accompanied with incentives and government policies . What we are seeing in recent years is a growing trend motivated by economic and personal desire. The interesting thing about this innovative idea is that not only involves individual benefits, but also collective. It represents an option to increase productivity by making more efficient use of the vehicles and resources, which is also attractive to governments. Currently there is no greater fusion between government and the market ridesharing and carpooling, but environmental, economic and social, factors indicate that increasingly is closer to the point where both work hand by hand, and when this point is achieved, will change the way we transport and our behave as a society.
At the same time also the development of technology as intelligent and even self-driving vehicles, will make the growth trend does not have a decrease as happened in previous years.
