Part 5 : Law and Public policyCarpooling becomes more and more famous and used with time. Several countries already have authorized and adopted the concept itself but not without any rules to follow. Some governments put in place very strict laws for drivers and users used to do carpooling.This part deals with some examples of countries that decided to supervise the practice of carpooling and also with some governments actions aimed at encouraging it.Countries examples-	FranceFirst, BlaBlaCar, French leader of long-distance carpooling, is often metioned as one of the finest achievements of French web. Moreover, it is very often cites Carpooling as an opportunity for social and ecological progress.BlaBlaCar has exceeded 10 million of users in 2014, with users all around Europe, plus India, plus Russia…and the expension is not over ! Moreover, following the launch in February of a new service (Uberpop), presented as the « urban carpooling », the company of VTC Uber has been convicted of misleading business practice.According to press reports, many Uberpop drivers were arrested and face up of 3 years in prison and € 45,000 fine. The Interior Ministry has repeated on December : « Uberpop is illegal and will be prohibited from January, 1st 2015,  pursuant to Trevenoud law. », law related to taxis and transport vehicules with drivers.The release of the DGCCRF (Directorate General for Competition, Customer Affaires and Fraud) in February 2014, in response to the launch of Uberpop service, is clear : « the legality of Carpooling has been upheld by the Court of Cassation in a judgment of March 2013, however, it is provided not practiced for profit. Under the carpool passengers’ financial participation is limited to the cost sharing. However, passenger transport, under cover of carpooling, realized profit is illegal. Indeed, it constitutes an unauthorized public transport activity.«  The Directorate General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Control (DGCCRF) points out that carpooling is permissible under the condition that it is free or that the money paid by people transported corresponds to a cost sharing generated by the use of the vehicle.”How to define a « for-profit-activity » ? How to define « cost sharing » ? The authorities have a tool for this : the scales of cost per kilometer set each year by the Financial Directorate.These scales formalize the cost of travel of a vehicule in particular employee.For an average distance of 15,000 km per year, this cost is estimated by the administration at about € 0,35 per kilometer.There was therefore « shared costs » if the passenger pays the driver less than € 0,35 per kilometer, and one can speak of « profit activity » otherwise.When driver makes a journey between Paris and Nantes with BlaBlaCar, the passenger pays an average of € 24, that to say € 0,06 per kilometer, that is well below € 0,35. So there is no doubt that BlaBlaCar offers a cost-sharing system.The passenger Uberpop, him, pays for his ride €1 plus €0,95 per kilometer plus €0,15 per minute, well above the limit of €0,35 per km. Even applying the commission of 20% that Uber punctures on the gross remuneration received by the driver, the net remuneration received by the driver remains well above €0,35 per km.→ By carpool, the driver is not a driverThe Ministry of the Environment, Transport and Sustainable Development defines carpooling as the joint use of a vehicule by a non-professional driver and one or passengers on a major route or shared route section.To be clear, there is carpooling when the trip could, anyway, was carried by the driver « empthy ». The logic of Carpooling is to optimize the occupancy rate if its vehicule during a journey that would have been undertaken even alone.There is no carpool when a driver as a taxi or VTC, realizes a trip specifically to serve the needs of a passenger.A BlaBlaCar driver does not do a Paris-Strasbourg route to accomodate a passenger wants to go to Alsace. The BlaBlaCar driver will go anyway to Strasbourg, and proposes its seats to passengers wishing to graft to his vehicule.A Uberpop driver, posted to the Concorde is called by a passenger to get it to Bastille and take him to Paris Charles de Gaulle would not have made this trip « vacuum ». He had no reason to go to the airport if it is to receive remuneration fro the passenger, in exchange for the service rendered. Just as a taxi or a VTC.http://www.karos.fr/blog-3-le-covoiturage-est-il-legal-oui-si-c-est-du-covoituragehttp://legifrance.gouv.fr/affichTexte.do?cidTexte=JORFTEXT000029527162&categorieLien=idhttp://www.service-public.fr/actualites/002687.html-	CanadaThe Department of Transportation encourages carpooling in Quebec. This can have interesting effects on the reduction of congestion and emissions. Carpooling is popular and can take different forms.The Act respecting transportation services by taxi (RLRQ , chapter S -6.01) establishes rules for paid passenger transportation by automobile.Offer or provide paid transport of persons using an automobile, a person must be authorized by a taxi owner's permit.In addition, a taxi driver 's license is required to drive an automobile attached to a taxi owner's permit.The Law concerning taxi transportation services provides many obligations. Among other things, the obligations include:•	training on the transportation of persons with limitations throughout Quebec;•	basic training and place names by territory ;•	the criminal background check ;•	the maximum age of the vehicle and the semi- annual mechanical inspection ;•	vehicle equipped with a taximeter, by territory.However, The Law provides exceptions. It does not apply in the following cases :•	school transportation ;•	the transport by a volunteer driver under the control of a humanitarian organization recognized by the Ministry of Health and Social Services ;•	the transport by a volunteer driver under the control of a body or a nonprofit corporation that transports persons intoxicated , since the intoxicated of automotive occupant is performed and the escort service is not provided for pecuniary gain ;•	the transport of persons on the occasion of baptisms , weddings or funerals , where the automobiles are subject to mechanical inspection prescribed;•	transportation by ambulance or hearse ;•	carpooling performed according to the standards of Article 36 of the Transport Act.Carpooling does not require a license. However, it is important to note that paid transportation may be carried out under cover of carpooling or commercial carpooling.First, the notion of shopping carpooling does not exist. In any consideration of a business in passenger transport by car, a taxi owner's permit is required and the tax rules must be respected.The Department of Transportation encourages citizens to carpool. According to the Transportation Act, carpooling involves carriage performed on the same route, where only the transportation costs are shared and that no compensation is required.Specifically, a driver with car pool also has to move and to personally go to the destination, even if it has no passengers. Passenger transport is incidental to the movement and not the primary purpose of it. Passengers contribute to compensate the driver to use the vehicle, such as the sharing of costs of gasoline.A person who transports people with remuneration but without any licensee is liable to a fine of $ 350 to $ 1050 (Law concerning transportation services by taxi, Art. 117) if it offers or paid transport of persons using an automobile without holding a taxi owner's permit. In addition, the vehicle may be seized under section 71.On the island of Montreal, the Montreal Taxi Bureau is responsible for conducting investigations and issuing statements of offense. Elsewhere in Quebec, he returned to Quebec Stopcheck for ensuring the implementation of the Transportation Law and the Law respecting taxi transportation services.http://www.mtq.gouv.qc.ca/usagers/reseauroutier/covoiturage-transp-remunere/Pages/default.aspx-	ChinaIn China, the minister of Transport declared: “Private cars will never operate as commercial cars.”In 2014, Beijing issued the carpooling regulation for small vehicles, a lawful endorsement which officially legalized carpooling in Beijing.However there are illegal taxicabs, which are often called “black car”, in almost every city in China. These black cars do not have legitimate operating licenses from the transportation management department, but they provide transport services and make a profit in return. There are several types of black cars, such as motorcycles, tricycles, buses and even ambulances. Therefore, the aforementioned regulation the Beijing government announced raises questions. In order to clarify the doubts, a report from People’s Daily provided answers.Carpooling needs to be built on long term cooperation between the owner of the car and the passengers; in short, people involved in carpooling know each other. Since the goal of carpooling is to reduce carbon emissions and the number of vehicles on the roads, most carpooling will be performed during commuting time. The price of carpooling should not be expensive either.Normally, the cost of a private vehicle for carpooling is half the price of a taxi for the same distance. Passengers can therefore calculate the fee with reference to the taxi fee and divide it by the number of the passengers.The goal of Beijing’s legalization of carpooling is to ease traffic congestion and conserve energy. Since the new regulation may enable black cars to earn more unjust profits, the challenge ahead for Beijing, the first city legalizing carpooling from black cars.Governments’ actions-	HOV Lanes (High Occupancy Vehicle Lanes)A high-occupancy vehicle lane (also known as an HOV lane, carpool lane, diamond lane, and transit lane or T2 or T3 lanes in Australia and New Zealand) is a restricted traffic lane reserved at peak travel times or longer for the exclusive use of vehicles with a driver and one or more passengers, including carpools, vanpools, and transit buses. The normal minimum occupancy level is 2 or 3 occupants.HOV lanes are normally created to increase average vehicle occupancy and persons traveling with the goal of reducing traffic congestion and air pollutionHigh-occupancy toll lanes (HOT lanes) have been introduced in the United States to allow solo driver vehicles to use the lane on payment of a variable fee, which usually varies with demand.Southern California has more than 700 miles of carpool lanes, helping drivers and their passengers to save time and money, as well as avoid traffic hassles. Using carpool lanes typically saves a minute per mile over driving alone, so grab a friend and get moving.To avoid a $341 fine, drivers need to be familiar with Southern California’s carpool lane laws, which are below:•	Carpool lanes in Southern California require two or more people per vehicle.•	Only enter and exit a carpool lane at areas designated with signs and a broken double yellow or white line. It’s against the law to cross the double yellow lines of a carpool lane.•	Children count as carpool partners.•	Motorcyclists can ride alone in carpool lanes.•	Zero-emission vehicles don’t need to meet minimum passenger requirements; however, proper identification in the form of a sticker from the Department of Motor Vehicles is required.•	Passenger requirements are in effect for Southern California’s carpool lanes 24 hours a day.Some advantages :-	Optimizing the speed of movement of vehicles in the HOV lanes and other adjacent channels-	Shorter trips and more reliable for carpoolers-	Reduction of energy consumption, vehicle emissions and delays caused by congestion due to fewer vehicles on the roads-	Improved and increased sustainable options for personal transportation.In North America•	Atlanta, Géorgie,   USA•	Denver,   USA•	Houston, Texas,   USA•	Los Angeles, Californie,   USA•	Montréal, Québec,   Canada•	New York, New York,   USA•	Ottawa, Ontario,   Canada•	Pittsburgh, Pennsylvanie,   USA•	San Diego, Californie,   USA•	Seattle, État de Washington,   USA•	Vancouver, Colombie-Britannique,   Canada•	Washington DC,   USA (since 1992)•	Winnipeg, Manitoba,   Canada•	Caroline du Nord,   USA•	Ontario,   Canada•	Virginie,   USAIn EuropeThere is nota lot of examples known of HOV lanes in Europe. But the project Europeen ICARO (Increasing Car Occupancy) permited to create in:* Leeds, Bristol and Madrid.•	Amsterdam,   Netherlands•	Bristol,   UK•	Leeds,   UK (since 1998)•	Linz,   Austria•	Madrid,   Spain•	Trondheim,   Norway (2001)In the rest of the world:•	Auckland,   New Zeland•	Brisbane,   Australia•	Sydney,   Australiahttp://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voie_réservée_aux_véhicules_à_occupation_multiplehttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-occupancy_vehicle_lanehttp://www.go511.com/traffic/carpool_lanes.aspx-	Encouraging CarpoolingWashington D.C. has launched a pilot program to reduce road congestion and pollution: It is paying commuters $2 a day to carpool. It's based on programs in Atlanta, Los Angeles and other cities. The assumption is that after a few months of being paid, people will evolve into full-time carpoolers without a cash incentive.http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=120676315Part 6 : Social awareness

http://techcrunch.com/2015/05/11/dotc-ridesharing/    The Philippines To Introduce Regulations For Ridesharing Apps
http://www.forbes.com/sites/tomiogeron/2012/10/08/ride-sharing-startups-get-california-cease-and-desist-letters/
https://www.techinasia.com/chinas-minister-transport-private-cars-operate-commercial-cars/
http://www.forbes.com/sites/tomiogeron/2013/09/19/california-becomes-first-state-to-regulate-ridesharing-services-lyft-sidecar-uberx/
http://www.xconomy.com/wisconsin/2015/05/18/battle-to-regulate-uber-lyft-moves-from-city-halls-to-state-capitols/


